from Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes. Oh, weekly discussion
with web developer on technologist
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing the show. Number four
Oh five recorded live Thursday,
January 2nd, 2013. This episode of Hansel
minutes is brought to you
by Telara offering the best
in developer tools and support
online@telrikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers of gesture pack
a powerful gesture, recording and
recognition system for Microsoft connect
for windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Rob Connery about the motivation
for a young person to
take a job or finish
school. Bob Conner, you with
another episode of Connery minutes
today, my guest is Scott
Hanselman. Yay. Hi Scott. How
are you? Hi, you are
recording, right? Yes. You did
push record before you said
that. Yes. Did you like
that? I have been practicing
that intro for a while
now. Yeah, I thought that
was lovely. Okay. Well, I
wanted to talk to you
about a post. You wrote
recently about the programmer coder,
hacker and developer, walking into
a bar, computer scientist, getting
into a, they walked into
a Venn diagram. Yes and
no one got mine. No
one got my humor. It's
actually an oiler diagram, which
cause it's not a real
event. A real Venn diagram
has to have every combination
of set intersect. But some
of these, like, right, if
you look at the diagram,
it's right now, it's on
my blog, like roots phone
that doesn't have a scenario
where roots phone and talks,
human intersect. Only you sir
have been spending too much
time on hacker news. So
the point is though I
put in two jokes and
no one got any of
it. First I put in
the actual oiler theory as
the equation. And then I
put in a thing that
said that the, you know,
one of the Venn diagram,
segments is a guy who
thinks a Venn diagram was
the best idea for this.
And every comment was that
that's not a Venn diagram.
It's not actually going into
your answer. You guys you're
missing the point. No one
gets my subtle human. Well,
it says right here in
the comment at the very
bottom, but it should be
shockingly pink and blinking says,
yes, it's really, you know,
God pedant, you know what
I mean? It's really very
frustrating. Hey, that's what we
get when we write these
posts. Right? Well, well, and
then they were saying it
was an art post about
programmers. So I should have
been more detail oriented because
my original post did not
compile well, I found this
post interesting because over the
holidays I was talking to
my nephew who is trying
to complete a computer science
degree in Colorado and he's
taking some time off and
he is bartending. And so
we had a great conversation,
you know, just talking about
the industry and whatnot. And
he says, it's, I'm finding
it Really hard to leave
bartending. Cause I'm making 700
to $800 a night in
tips alone. Let me, let
me do the math here.
How many nice does week
does he bartend? I think
three or four. Okay. So
Four nights a week, times
four that's shoot. That's like
a hundred grand a year.
Right? And it's cash. So,
you know, I mean a
hundred grand a year under
the table. Pretty much. Yeah.
I mean he declares a
few, some of it I'm
sure. But so I'm trying
to talk to him about
starting a career. What do
you do? And he's telling
me about getting in fist
fights with certain people who
don't want to leave. And
I'm thinking, yeah, that pretty
much is like life on
hacker news and Twitter when
she get involved in the
community. But then I read
your article, which I thought
was fascinating because you're trying
to give advice to a
friend of yours and how
to get started as a
coder. And you aren't, she's
actually a doctor. That's crazy
Like an actual, like she's
a psychiatrist and she has
a practice. Yeah. That, and
there's a lot of people
that are making their way
into the industry. You, however,
instead of going the academic
route layout code Academy, Khan
Academy, code.org and all these
online resources, I find that
interesting. Why are you saying
anything about academics here? Or
are you, are you just
simply suggesting this is a
way to learn code or
what are you suggesting? I
like the diagram by the
way. Thank you very much.
I worked very hard on
that. Well, so if you,
at the beginning of the
post though, I say a
lot, A lot of people
in the conversation started talking
about, well, you could go
here and you could go
there. So if you ask
general people, if you just
say, Hey, what should I
do? They will give you
code Academy. Like that's the
first one. That's the one
that people will give you.
But I think, And I
don't actually say it in
the, in the thing here,
but I think there's got
to be some formalization to
it. You know what I
mean? Like if I wanted
to become an electrician, I
couldn't just fall into electrician.
I have to become an
apprentice and then I need
to work my way up
and there's unions to join
and there's there's guidance and
I have to learn the,
the rules. You know what
I'm saying? You can't just
roll into, I don't know,
bootleg, electrician. I don't think
you can. I'm pretty sure
you can't. I don't know
what I mean. It's just
like, you can't just fall
into brain surgery, but for
some reason, if you imply
to a software engineer that
they ought to think about
a formal internship, the idea
is like, well, you know,
you know what, you're insulting
my intelligence. You don't think
I can do it like,
well, no. I just think
that there's value in going
to school. So I actually
do believe kind of the
opposite of that. Like if
you want to goof around
and hack stuff together. Sure.
But what I'm trying to
say, and apparently I said
it in successfully that a
developer is a much larger,
more well rounded person than
a hacker or a coder
or whatever. You know what
I mean? It's a good
question. How much of a
foundation do you need in
order to jump in and
start hacking and, and coding
and whatnot. And does, does
the current academic climate get
you ready for this? I'm
a, I'm a wrong one
to ask. I was a
geologist, right? Well, but so
I would take your sentence.
You just started and you
went a different direction. You
said, you know what kind
of a background you need
to jump in and start
hacking zero. You need zero.
That's totally cool. But what
kind of a background you
need to join a team
at Goldman Sachs to work
on their next level trading
platform. You see what I'm
saying? I think that you
need a different set of
skills to do something like
that. Now I'm not necessarily
saying enterprise software, I'm saying
large team software. And I
think that there's a difference
between the kind of like
it's a startup with four
or five people and we're
making the Nino, we're making
an app versus the I'm
going to go work at
Aflac insurance and, and, and
make the system that runs
$20 billion worth of insurance processing.
You know what I'm saying?
Those are very different skills.
Do you think that a
geologist could do that? Yes.
If they have five or
10 years experience in software
development, Sometimes I wonder about
that when you're talking about
large institutionalized development, that is
really rigorous and I've been
in those situations many times,
you're, you're, you're writing things
to a spec that is
so clearly defined upfront usually,
right? Sometimes it's a little
bit more iterative these days,
but given that it's so
controlled, I w I might
suggest that it's maybe even
a more comfortable environment for
someone to learn. You know,
that doesn't maybe not doesn't
know everything about computer science.
What do you think? Yeah,
I think it's a different
kind of structure. I know
that I know that we
have some interns at, at
Microsoft now in the signal,
our team that are probably
20, like 19 years old
or 20, you know, and
they're, they're getting a very
different perspective. Cause they're thinking
about, you know, global security
checks and what's called poly
check, you know, looking for
that will, this offend people
in a foreign language, if
you name a, an API
this way and like all
these kinds of things that
only the Oracles and the
Googles and the Microsofts think
about that's very different than
if they were 19. And
they went to work at
Facebook five years ago. You
know what I mean? Do
I find it an interesting,
I find it an interesting
thing from my perspective, because
I was self-taught and I
found myself in some really
interesting positions over the years
where I had to make
up my own mind about
a lot of things. And
that was during the first.com
bubble, a lot of startups
trying to make their way
using some upstart technology, which
at the time was ASP
classic. Right. Whereas, you know,
you, you, you work with
the old guard that was
at the time doing Java.
And I remember giggling because
I could move so much
faster, but then again, I
would make all the classic
mistakes that they weren't making.
Do you see where I'm
going with this? So left
alone in a startup world
where I think people might
think, Oh, you could together
some things and, and make
your way. I don't know
if that's the best environment
for someone to come along
and try and get a
job. Sometimes I think a
more structured environment would be
the best way regardless of
your background. So do you
know what I'm trying to
get out here? No, sorry.
That was a long winding.
That was a long winding
it's. That's why I take
over your show to show
people how good you are
being a host. As soon
as my point being is,
let's say I come out
of school, I'm a geologist
and I've learned some code
I've gone to code Academy
and I want to do
something I'm arguing that I
think maybe a better place
for that for me to
go would be large trading
platform. And I can learn
the rigors of day in
and day out. And let's
learn this right. As opposed
to some startup where they're
going to throw some code
at you and say, just
do it. I don't have
time to explain what it
has to happen. Right, right,
right. Yeah. Okay. I mean,
I appreciate that. You're basically
saying that, you know, there's
different layers, different kinds of
structure imposed by different kinds
of programming languages, different kinds
of environments. If you've got,
you know, four or five,
20 year olds and you
send one to Microsoft and
one to Google and one
to do a startup and
one to a research facility
and one to a cancer
research facility versus a computer
science research facility, they're going
to have different levels of
rigor in the code. They're
going to have different levels
of rigor in the development
process. And in the corporate
culture, I know that we
know when I was doing
like Goldman Sachs type work
on the East coast, even
though you were a coder,
you were still wearing a
suit to work, you know?
So you'd go in with
your suit. I don't know
how it is now. This
is years ago, but you'd
go in, in your suit
and tie and then you'd
have, you could, you could
loosen your tie when you,
once you were seen, you
know what I mean? Like
you could go in, be
seen in your suit and
tie, then you could take
off the suit and tie,
but you still were in
slacks and dress shoes. That's
very different like that. Wouldn't
I can't even think of
somewhere that would happen on
the West coast. But what,
you know, I've seen startups
where people just come in
in a hoodie and even
Zuckerberg wears a hoodie, still
that's cult culture, company, culture,
level of rigor. But then
you've got a, I've been
to small startups that are
doing agile the right way.
And they have extremely hardcore
coding gateway. What do you
call that gateways? But what's
it called when you, you
can't check something in because
it doesn't meet a certain
level of quality. I forget
the word for that. I'm
going to I'll remember it
in a second, but the
idea that, you know, if
you don't meet, meet this
level, then that goes on
getting checked in. You know
what I mean? And it
doesn't matter what you wear,
the rigor that they apply,
isn't societal or isn't, you
know, your, what you decide
to put on, but your
behavior, you know what I
mean? And then I know
other places that, that don't
even think about testing and
stuff like that. And it's
pretty much like, well, if
Twitter says that our site's
down, then we should probably
do something about it. I'm
not familiar with that. I'm
very familiar with that. Yeah.
Yeah. Like, like they, there
are sites that have said
that like, Oh yeah. If,
if Twitter complaints they're the
best people to tell us
our sites, don't like, they'll
tell us before Pingdom will
tell us. So it's a
small segue. You're turning 40
next week. And that is
quite the, you like that.
Well, I'm reflecting on, we
have to have a get
off the lawn moment whenever
we do Connery minutes. Right.
That's because you're so old.
Yes. I am much older
than you. I keep thinking
that you might catch up,
but it's just doesn't seem
to work out. It's funny.
Yeah. I'm actually not going
to catch up, turns out.
So yeah. Imagine you're talking
to two developers, right? One
of them, they're both very
smart people and one of
them is going to get
a job at GitHub and
the other one's going to
go get a job at
IBM. Let's just say, what
would you tell them? What
would be handsome and Sage
advice IBM versus where a
get hub, let's say, Oh
gosh, First. Yes. I would
want to know how long
they would be there. You
know what I mean? Like
I've always, I don't, I
don't personally, and this is
just my opinion. I don't
personally like seeing resumes where
someone has eight to nine
months jobs, like 18 months
over and over and over
and over again. You know
what I mean? I find
that kind of just kind
of, I dunno, I just
find it cheesy if you've
got 10 years of experience,
but you've only ever been
anywhere eight months. That seems
weird to me. So if
I were going to go
work at either of those
companies, I would definitely mentally
commit to myself. I'm going
to be here for two
to four years. You know
what I mean? I pick
a number cause I could
put up with anything I
could hook up for a
miserable, horrible job, as long
as it's, you know, I
it's, as long as it's,
I'm learning something, but I
think it would be worse
to leave a job after
five months and say, Oh
yeah, I worked at IBM.
We have it for five
months. I mean, seriously, is
that IBM's problem or is
it your problem? Does that
mean It does. I think
the reason I asked the
question is where we started
the conversation before, which is
what's a good place to
learn. Right. And I think
for me, you know, talking
to I've talked to a
number of developers will not
a number of few. Let's
put it that way. Whose
first job was a GitHub
style. And I use GitHub
because it's, it's kind of
this really cool place to
work, you know? And everyone
loves working there and you
work there and you say,
I work at kid hub,
right. It's a really neat
place to work. And I
think that if you start
off there, sometimes the rest
of everything you do is
going to suck. You know
what I mean? So, so
that's like our home run
show that we did on
this developer's life. Yeah. Where
you hit a home run,
like you made Ruby on
rails and unless you make
the next Ruby on rails,
like what are you going
to do next? Know what
if you're, what if your
first job is the best
job you'll ever, I guess
it's a little depressing, isn't
it? So you think the
best job you could ever
have would be IBM or
get hub? No, I dunno.
I was just using as
a, as a structured argument.
So, you know, you go
to these large structured places
where you sit in a
cubicle, you're handed your requirements
specs, and you have your
code policies that you need
to follow. And you just
sit there and write code
and drag in your designer
stuff. And off you go.
Right. And I'm wondering, you
know, that the people that
move around sometimes I think
this, that the people that
move from job to job
and develop this passion is
because they come from a
place where they just felt
squeezed and they weren't being
fulfilled. And then they have
this drive that starts to
build. And then they, boom,
turn into a, I don't
know, passionate developer that blogs
a lot and says, this
is what I've found. You
know, whereas people that I
think are just really happy
straight off from the get
go, I know, I wonder
how passionate they could be.
Do you know what I
mean? Yeah. But I don't
think that you're saying that
you don't think that you
could be a super passionate
developer who works in an
enterprise. Oh, I'm sure you
can. I'm I'm not suggesting
that. I'm just wondering if
there's different levels of fire.
Let's say between someone who,
Jason, where you work Super
satisfied with everything that's going
on and you, you know,
you're like, I need another
job. This is perfect. You
know, how, how fired up
are you to go learn
something new and to try
something different is I guess
what I'm saying, Based on
where you're deciding to go
work. Yeah, exactly. I don't
know. You know, I've heard
jokes about stuff like that,
where I've heard people say
that like, like we used
to pick on little Debbie
snack cakes, little Debbie snack
cakes. Yeah. We used to
talk about little Debbie snack
cakes, and then it turns
out that we should use
them as a, as a,
as a, what do you
call an archetype? Right. So
we'd say to ourselves, but
what about the guys that
little Debbie? You know what
I mean? Because, and there
was an implication there, a
rude implication that somehow those
guys were not awesome because
they work at little Debbie.
But if you dig into
those things and this is
my opinion again, but if
you dig into the kinds
of problems that they have,
you say, well, gosh, they
actually have some really interesting
problems, a little Debbie, you
know, they have some potentially
interesting issues around supply chain
management, supply chain, chain management
around the life of the
product and making sure that
things get on the right
trucks. I mean, there's, you
can take any problem even
in the most supposedly dull
instances. And it becomes a
really interesting thing. I actually
did some consulting@acompanythatdoeseffectivelymatch.com for truckers,
but not so truckers can
meet each other, but so
the trucks can meet each
other. Ah, see what I'm
saying? You driven a truck
from Portland to Arkansas. You
also gotta drive back. You
have a truck of a
certain size with certain size
wheels, certain sized bed can
hold certain size stuff. And
you can say, I'm going
back to Portland and they
say, Hey, can you take
this through Denver? And you
say, boom. Right. And that
was just not possible. So
now do that by, you
know, 5 million trucks or 10 million
trucks or whatever every day.
And suddenly things become a
really interesting problem. So on
its surface, you might say,
wow, that's a boring job.
You know what I mean?
No, 20 year olds are
going to go, won't want
to work for there. But
at the same time, someone's
going to say, gosh, that
is a really interesting problem.
And I want to work
on interesting problems. So I
don't think you can say
IBM or get hub or
whatever, or Aflac or little
Debbie and then glean someone's
passion or not passion for
the industry. Yeah, I think
you're right. I mean, I'm
not necessarily trying to state
a position. I sometimes just
am curious about it because
I'm naturally, I'm a naturally
curious person. I try and
I try out everything that's
brand new. And I remember
I was talking to somebody
who is a Microsoft developer
and I was trying to
explain why I liked rails
and why I liked Ruby
and why I was learning
it. And they said, I
just have no desire to
do that. And I said,
why is that? And they
said, well, because you know,
asp.net and so on that,
it just does what I
needed to do. And I'm
fine. I'm fine with that.
Which of course is, is,
is that's great. But at
the same time I found
myself thinking, is this a
function? Is their lack of
curiosity, a function of the
comfort level they have? Or
is it just, maybe they're
not an Explorer type? Do
you know what I mean?
Yeah, I suppose. I mean,
there, there is a certain
amount of comfort. I remember
that when, you know, if
you're buying a house, you're
going to think about the
job that you decide to
take and you might take
a safer job, but at
the same time using you
as an example, I'll put
you on the spot. You
know, you quit a perfectly
good job at Microsoft because
there were things that you
just didn't like about it,
the job wasn't working for
you. Right. And one could
argue one, one could argue,
I don't, I'm not necessarily
arguing that this, but one
could argue. That was a
mistake. If the goal was
make as much money as
possible in the shortest time
as possible, you know what
I mean? So you went
and instead went to work
for yourself. So a person
who has safety first would
say, gosh, quit a great
corporate job that ruined your
soul. And you know what
I mean? And went to
work for yourself. You're insane.
Right? You're just, you're just
stupid. But then of course
you build up your company
over the last three years
and then turn around and
sell it to Pluralsight. So,
you know, neener, neener, you
see, when would you have
known that going in? No.
So you basically took a
big bet and you won,
but on its, on its,
on its surface, one could
say, gosh, is that the
right kind of priority? Is
Rob? Well, a lot of
people have questioned me on
that. That's for sure. And
you know, all you can
do is to say, I'm
doing what I do. 300,
you just throw a hundred
dollar bills at them. Or
how does that I do
here at catch Katari makes
it rain. You know, the
interesting thing you're making me
think by putting me on
the spot. Cause I was,
I was sitting here. I
had an idea for this
application I wanted to make,
so I started to prototype
it and I found myself
really missing working in dotnet
and C-sharp, and, and there's
a bunch of things that
it did that would make
what I wanted to do
really easy. Yeah. And I
thought, Oh, I think I'll
do it. I think I'll
do it. And Danette, I
started to do it and
that it was actually too
easy and I stopped. I
stopped. Okay. And you're gonna,
you're going to laugh at
me. And you're probably going
to tell me, this is
very telling I wanted it
to hurt More. Really? Yeah.
And I realized that if
I was to write code
that didn't hurt a little
bit, then maybe I would
stop paying attention. Is that
warped? Or what am I?
You had emotional feelings about
your relationship with Microsoft as
a company. So, you know,
whenever anyone's moving jobs, you're,
you're gonna sit there and
you're gonna say, well, what
are the things I need
to do? You know, I
have to balance my personal
ethics, my personal growth. I
have to balance the pan
pan, the rent, you know,
it's one of those things.
So no, I mean, I
don't think that's weird. I
think you just, you might've
weighed things differently than Yeah.
It was interesting. You know,
I tried to explain to
someone why I like node
so much to now and
it's cause it's so JavaScript
is so messed up, that
it makes you write a
zillion tests and you know,
and I'm afraid. And it's
weird. I tried to explain
to somebody when I write
node stuff, I am afraid.
And I, and I said,
I think that actually makes
my code better. So yeah.
Pain and fear. That's what
motivates me as a developer.
Well, I've talked about fear
before, you know, I've had,
I've had these, we've had
these conversations, I'm totally motivated
by fear. And you want,
I think I talked to
you about this in minutes.
One when I said, I'm
always thinking about, am I
going to get fired? And
I got an email from
someone who was just like,
you know, Oh, you're Scott
Hanselman. You'll never get fired.
You know? And it would
be, you know, you can
always get a job. I
was like, well, yeah, I
know I could find a
job. That doesn't mean I
won't find a job that
I like, you know what
I mean? Like I could
always manage Jack in the
box. I could be a
really great fast food manager.
I'm pretty calm. I could
sell cars. You could sell
little Debbie snack cakes. So
I could totally work at
little Debbie, I think like
a diabetic. Right. You know
what I mean? So, but
that doesn't mean there's not
some fear. I mean, one
is, you know, fear of
not growing fear of not
succeeding, fear of embarrassing oneself.
Those things are our motivators.
Not necessarily primary motivators, but
still motivators. Hmm. Yeah. You
know? Yeah. It's interesting. I
had something I was thinking
about. And it's funny cause
I've been sitting here trying
to diverge the topics enough
that you lose your train
of thought. And then Why
would I, because my mission
would be Completed here because
you want to go to
completely destroy the show. No,
that's when I that's the
whole goal of Connery Munis
is to destroy The show
and I managed to completely
destroy my own train of
thought. Well actually, you know
what threw me? You do
have a train of thought
problem. That's probably why we
can do Oh no. I'm
Joe. No, actually I keep
thinking, you're going to sit
here and offer me that
job again. Cause you know,
I I'm out of work
not after, after this Performance,
If this is the interview.
No, you're not getting that
job. I'm horrible at interviews.
I am the worst. So
tell me, let's take it
all the way back to
the beginning. Let's take it
the beginning. You are looking
at my nephew, right? Oh,
the bartender, the bartender. Yes.
He's got a choice to
go to. He's got a
choice. Three, three choices to
make one. Do, does he
finish his degree or keep
making good money? Right? How
far into it is he?
He's I think almost on
his last year. So this
is a big, so he's
got that choice. Does he
finish his degree and then
go off and try and
find a job too? Yeah.
Should he just stop going
to college altogether and get
a job? Cause he's got
almost a CS degree. And
how old is he? I
think he's 22. Okay. Yeah.
And then the third choice
is to quit his job
and go, so yeah, quit
his job and go work
for like a startup like
GitHub hopper, quit his job,
go to work for Microsoft
or stay a bartender. What
would you tell him? I
feel very strongly about, about
staying in school. I think
I, you know, I've talked
about this before that it
took me 11 years to
do my four year degree.
A lot of people don't
realize that I graduated my,
my bachelor's in software engineering
and 2003. So I've been
in the industry 20 years,
but 21 years. But I've
been in, I have had
a degree for only 10
and I stuck with it.
I stuck with it. I
went to school at night.
I went to school. I
mean, I went to school
online. I went to school
anywhere that would have me.
I made deals with, you
know, with the Dean to
make sure my credit didn't
expire. Like there was a
lot of work because I
started it and I really
believe it's important to finish
what you start. I think
that it's really, really sad
that the saddest thing for
me is when you meet
someone who has a PhD,
but are what they call
ABD all but dissertation, the
dissertation. Yep. Oh man. I
mean, that's just sad, but
in our car, I'm going
to jump in because in
our conversation with my nephew,
I found myself saying for
the first time, I don't
even know if it matters
if you finish anymore, no
nonsense kittens, but to you
that he'll know that he
didn't finish he'll know in
his heart of hearts. And
if the goal is to
just get money then yeah,
sure. Okay, fine. Get money.
You know what I mean?
Okay. Whatever, get money. But
he's 22 and he's not,
I don't think he's thinking
about the long con you
know what I mean? And
if the long con, and
again, this is about priorities,
right? If it's about being
happy and kind of Matthew
McConaughey, You know, do that,
you know, move to Hawaii
and hang out and surf.
But if, if the goal
is to acquire enough money
and equity that you control
your own destiny and you
know, are not the Holden
to your corporate overlords, you
know, you're going to have
to think about your, the
way that you're going to
manage things. Does that make
sense? I mean, I guess
I'm rambling. You've got me
rambling, but the point I'm
making is that I don't
think that he's 22. He's
not really thinking about it
for me. There is a
game in America and that
game is to, you know,
get enough money in, in,
into a pile somewhere that
you can kind of do
your own thing. Other people
argue that you can do
your own thing. If you
just don't have a, a
net at all. You know
what I told them to
do what I need to
call this guy. I told
him to go buy some
books on Python. Okay. Learn
it. Stay bartender, get a
job at a startup. So
I told him, But why
wouldn't he just finish? You
said he's right at the
end. I mean, it's not
like he's a freshman. I
think it's because, I mean,
you know, it costs a
lot of money to keep
going through school. Almost done.
He's burned up. He's taking
time off. He didn't even,
he didn't, he couldn't even
Time off because he's an
entitled. No, no, no. He's,
he's paying he, I know
he is not. He is
one of the nicest kids.
No. I mean, I don't
know the guy from Adam.
I'm just saying like, you
know, is he like, Oh,
I mean, I'm burned out.
I need to find me.
No, I think he's go.
He goes through what you
and I went through. Right.
Why you delayed your degree?
I delayed mine and My
degree because, well, for other
reasons, but okay. Okay. Well,
either way. Alright, I delayed
it because I was wandering
around and I just thought,
well, I'm going to go
travel the world, Trying to
find yourself. Right, exactly. Just
trying to grow up. I
didn't know I was lost
and now you're found that's
fine. Anyway. So I told
him, yeah, go buy Python
books and learn it. And
why Python It's. I mean,
it's pretty accessible and flexible
language. Worried about rotting, his
brain Wanting his brain with
other languages. Pretty much. I'm
not saying Python's perfect. But
if you compare it, if
you compare the complaints that
you see that people have,
right. Between Python and Ruby
and JavaScript and blah, blah,
blah. Yeah. Python to me,
they seem to be, seem
to be something that was
reasonable. I'm not saying it's
perfect, but you know, mm
how's that statement, I'm going
to get emailed out. I
think, Go ahead. Python's a
good language. It works on,
you know, it works on
a raspberry PI. You can
talk to hardware with it
as easily as you can
write a web server. You
know what I mean? It's
a nice, it's a wrist
friendly language and it teaches
kids about what's the word.
It teaches kids about significant
white space, which I think
everyone should learn about. Yeah.
Formatting's built into it. So
your eye gets attuned to
it. I think it's nice.
It's a nice language for
learning. I love C sharp.
It's like, I've told you
this before. It's too much
emotional baggage. It's a first
as a first to go
and learn C-sharp if there
was no non-emotional, you know,
you have lots of emotional
baggage. I'm talking about C-sharp
the problem with C-sharp I
think right now, and with
most languages, is that separating
the language from the libraries.
You know what I mean?
Like I was talking about
this when I talk about
node, right? Like there's JavaScript,
which is half of node.
And then there's the node
base class libraries. And the
funny thing about them is
that there aren't any, you
know, you just have to
go and put them together.
You have to go and
say, Oh, I need something
to help me format dates.
Like, you know, and I've
got to go and find
moment dot JS or this
and that dot JS. And
you end up with 60
different libraries. You know what
I mean? While with the.net
framework, there's this base class
library, which comes with it
and you just have to
learn that, you know what
I'm saying? I do. There
are that's a lot. And
the problem is that you
can put all of your
knowledge into your, you waste
all these brain cells with
information about frameworks. When you
really need to be thinking
about the language constructs. Well,
there are five or six
core modules that are, you
know what I'm saying? I
do know what you're saying,
but just in case people
out there are going to
be confused. I had to
be pedantic for a second.
Sorry. It's my hacker news
moment. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know what I'm saying
though? Yeah. I like, I
like languages that have a
lot of different choices for
the under underlying frame. Absolutely.
I would, I would have
suggested C-sharp cause I do,
I am coming around to
love this language. It is
so capable and I would
have suggested it, but then
you start thinking about link
and you start thinking about,
Oh, how many different ways
do you have to represent
a collection versus a list
or an array? You know,
it's this a lot of
stuff in there. And so
I felt like, well, it's
a good step to language,
you know, once you're done
with Python and you're thinking,
okay, now I want to
build, you know, little Debbie
snack, cakes.com. Well, maybe we
could do C sharp. Yeah.
But the problem that I
have with that suggestion that
you gave him is that
it doesn't, it doesn't deal
with the underlying issue of
like, he's obviously staying in
bartending for the money. And
he obviously doesn't feel that
he wants to finish his
degree or he would just
finish his degree. So there's
some root issues there that
aren't being dealt with. That's,
you know, I think this
is more than a personal
issue and this is why
I just read a Quicksilver,
Neil Stevenson. Have you read
that? And there's a line
in it where one of
the main characters is talking
about why he founded MIT.
And he said, I wanted
to show, and I'm going
to butcher this. I don't
know the exact quote, but
I want it to show,
I wanted to educate people
with real science instead of
all that other philosophical nincompoops
Marie . I loved it.
It was such a good
word. And I always thinking
that it really is sort
of problem with college these
days, some of the thinking
and some of the teaching
and some of the things
you face are just really
do. They apply in this
world today. You know, you
find classes that people take
that are just, just trying
to get credits to get
through, which really you're trying
to expand your brain and
understand more about the world,
but it's become this system
that you're trying to hack
and get yourself through. And
then you dump a couple
hundred grand along the way,
depending on where you go
to school. You know what
I mean? I guess I'm
a little bit jaded on
at all. Yeah. I think
that the whole third, I
do have to agree and
we should probably end on
that though. The idea of
30 grand a year or
so you can owe a
lot of money is a
problem. You know what I
mean? I do think though
that was software. You can
get a degree and pay
off the degree more reliably
more quickly than if you
got a degree in, I
don't know, social work or
something, you know, it's like,
it's almost like the more
noble the degree, the less
likely you are to be
able to pay it off.
That's true. Well, as I
told my nephew, he could
go get a job at
a startup. See what it
feels like, make some money
and leave and maybe he'll
be really fired up to
go finish his degree later
on. I don't know. Yeah.
Like I think the other
final final question is that,
does this, does this nephew
of yours, like building right
there. That's really what it
comes down to. If he
likes building, then, you know,
let him let him build.
But obviously he doesn't like
building as much as he
likes making $700 a day.
Yup. Well, Scott, thank you
for letting me come on
your show and utterly destroy
it. I hope people are
finding just how good of
a host you are. It's
it's, it's lovely. It's content
free every time you're on.
Exactly. This has been another
episode of Connery minutes. Thank
you so much for listening.